Blogpost about v2 paper (#3454)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/blog/2025/paper_v2.mdx

---
title: "Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core"
subtitle: "Genome Biology review"
pubDate: 2025-08-05T12:00:00+01:00
headerImage: "/assets/images/blog/paper_v2/paper_v2.png"
headerImageAlt: "nf-core logo"
headerImageDim: [250, 250]
embedHeaderImage: false
authors:
    - "maxulysse"
    - "jfy133"
    - "mashehu"
label:
    - "maintainers"
---

## Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core

> We already [announced](https://bsky.app/profile/nf-co.re/post/3ksi4mr6uyl25) the preprint, but now we are excited to announce that the latest nf-core community paper in **Genome Biology** is live!

Author: ```suggestion
Last year, we [announced](https://bsky.app/profile/nf-co.re/post/3ksi4mr6uyl25) the preprint, but we are now excited to announce that the latest nf-core community paper in **Genome Biology** is live!
```

> Last year, we [announced](https://bsky.app/profile/nf-co.re/post/3ksi4mr6uyl25) the preprint, but we are now thrilled to share that the latest nf-core community paper in **Genome Biology** is live!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last year, we [announced](https://bsky.app/profile/nf-co.re/post/3ksi4mr6uyl25) the preprint, but we are now thrilled to share that the latest nf-core community paper has been published in [**Genome Biology**](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-025-03673-9)!
```

> [Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core](https://rdcu.be/eyqzX)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[_Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core_](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-025-03673-9)
```

Let's not use the readcube thing, that's just for shady tracking shit by the publisher... it's an open access paper so we shouldn't have any issues with people accessing them

> This is a collaborative paper with EuroFAANG, where we have summarised the latest updates and progress within Nextflow and nf-core (e.g. the now standardised DSL2 syntax and the modules repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this publication we have summarised the latest updates and progress within Nextflow and nf-core (such as the now standardised Nextflow DSL2 syntax and the nf-core modules repository).
```

> The collaboration with EuroFAANG has been a fruitful one that extended all things **FAIR**, and lead to the creation of the [Special Interest Groups](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/special_interest_groups) at nf-core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collaboration with the [EuroFAANG](https://eurofaang.eu/) consortium - who work on improving genotype-to-phenotype relationships of farm animals - has been a fruitful one that extended all things **FAIR**, and lead to the creation of the [Special Interest Groups](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/special_interest_groups) at nf-core. The new publication describes how the adoption of Nextflow and nf-core of the consortium lead to more efficient and reproducible cross-institutional working and analysis.
```

> We would like to thank Björn E. Langer for leading this effort and all the community members without whom this would not have been possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to thank Björn E. Langer for leading this effort and all the community members without whom this would not have been possible.

**Full Citation**
Langer, B.E., Amaral, A., Baudement, M.-O., Bonath, F., Charles, M., Chitneedi, P.K., Clark, E.L., Di Tommaso, P., Djebali, S., Ewels, P.A., Eynard, S., Fellows Yates, J.A., Fischer, D., Floden, E.W., Foissac, S., Gabernet, G., Garcia, M.U., Gillard, G., Gundappa, M.K., Guyomar, C., Hakkaart, C., Hanssen, F., Harrison, P.W., Hörtenhuber, M., Kurylo, C., Kühn, C., Lagarrigue, S., Lallias, D., Macqueen, D.J., Miller, E., Mir-Pedrol, J., Moreira, G.C.M., Nahnsen, S., Patel, H., Peltzer, A., Pitel, F., Ramayo-Caldas, Y., Ribeiro-Dantas, M. da C., Rocha, D., Salavati, M., Sokolov, A., Espinosa-Carrasco, J., Notredame, C., community, the nf-core, 2025. Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core. Genome Biology 26, 228. [https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-025-03673-9](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-025-03673-9)
```

> We would like to thank Björn E. Langer for leading the whole thing and all the community members without whom this would not have been possible.

Author: ```suggestion
We would like to thank Björn E. Langer for leading this effort and all the community members without whom this would not have been possible.
```
